"You never let a serious crisis go to waste." - Rahm Emanuel

A new report details how Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi delayed funding allocated to helping prevent the spread of the coronavirus because she knew Democrat candidates running for office could exploit the situation as a campaign talking point.

Elizabeth Vaughn reports:

Speaking withFox News’Laura Ingraham on Monday night, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said, “Look how much politics they want to play.The dirty little secret.We have the coronavirus. We need to fund this. You know what Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker, did? She withheld the bill last week. You know why? So the DCCC could run ads against seven Republicans.”

Ingraham asked, “How many people ran ads on the coronavirus, fundraising appeals?”

“I don’t know how many ran, but they actually took the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, spent money, went into these seven Republican seats to campaign against them about the coronavirus when she’s the Speaker of the House. Instead of putting America first, she put her politics first and kept the bill from coming to the floor,” McCarthy explained.

Sadly the coronavirus is just a tragedy worth exploiting to liberal and progressive lawmakers.

At a press conference on Wednesday McCarthy said:

Last week, we had an opportunity to bring forth the Supplemental, the needed funds for public health and others to deal with this item. We are not the majority. We cannot determine the floor, so Speaker Pelosi left, and had us leave Congress. This week, we hope we’re going to be able to bring it up.

The one concerning issue that I have, not as just the leader of the Republicans, but really as an American. Why didn’t we vote on it last week? And why now is the Democratic arm of the DCCC running ads against seven Republicans? On something they could not vote on, because they could not control it. Are they playing politics and holding the money up so their political arm can attack Republicans on this issue? Can they, for one time put people before politics? I think they owe the American people an apology. I think the Speaker needs to apologize. Cheri Bustos needs to take those ads down and stop playing politics with this.

America is nervous. We’ve been preparing for years in advance. We’ve got to make sure we have all the needed resources there.

So bring the bill to the floor.

That's a great question. What's the hold up?!

Earlier in the conference, the ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), spoke and said that Democrats were trying to include HR3 (Elijah Cummings’ Lower Drug Costs Now Act) with the bill for coronavirus funding. HR3 is a very controversial bill which will require some debate. Walden basically said, let’s keep this separate, because the funds to fight the coronavirus crisis are needed now.

And there it is - Democrats would rather let people die than do the right thing.