BERNIE on CORONAVIRUS: ‘Casualties May Be Even Higher Than What Armed Forces Experienced in WW II’

posted by Hannity Staff - 3.13.20

Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders weighed-in on the ongoing Coronavirus outbreak across the United States this week; telling reporters the “casualties” could be higher than what “the Armed Forces experienced” in the Second World War.

“In terms of potential deaths…the crisis we face is on a scale of a major war…we also have to face the truth and that is that the number of casualties may actually be even higher than what the armed forces experienced in World War II,” said Sanders during a press briefing on the virus.

Report ad

President Trump addressed the nation from the Oval Office Wednesday night; saying it’s time for the American people to unify and combat the Coronavirus outbreak as “one family.”

“No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States. We have the best healthcare anywhere in the world. We are all in this together. We must put politics aside, stop the partisanship and unify together as one nation and one family,” said the President.

“History has proven time and time again, Americans always rise to the challenge and overcome adversity. Our future remains brighter than anyone can imagine,” he added.

The global Coronavirus outbreak continued to have a major impact on the American economy and sporting world Thursday; with A-list actor Tom Hanks testing positive for the disease and the NBA suspending its entire season until further notice.

“Actor Tom Hanks, his wife Rita Wilson, they have tested positive for Coronavirus. They are in our prayers tonight,” said Hannity.

The President addressing the American public from the Oval Office Wednesday night; unveiling a series of new travel restrictions for all of Europe excluding the United Kingdom.

The 30-day ban starts Friday at midnight and applies to: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland, and excludes the United Kingdom and Ireland.

“This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history,” Trump said in an address to the nation. “I am confident by counting and continuing to take these measures we will significantly reduce the threat to our citizens and we will ultimately and expeditiously defeat this virus.”