By Carole Hornsby Haynes, Ph.D.

UPDATE: April 7, 2020

Fox News reports,

“A Democratic Michigan state lawmaker has credited President Trump's publicizing of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine with saving her life after her health "plummeted" when she contracted coronavirus.

State Rep. Karen Whitsett of Detroit told "The Ingraham Angle" on Monday that if it wasn't for Trump pushing the drug through the Food and Drug Administration's approval process for off-label use and touting it repeatedly during his daily press briefings, she may not have made it through the terrible contagion....

When Whitsett did make it to the hospital, she found out about a state order prohibiting the use of hydroxychloroquine. The Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, under Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, had issued the order, only for the governor to retract it several days later.

‘I did have a difficult time, even that day, obtaining the medication because of an order that was put down in my state,’ said Whitsett. ‘And it was on that day so you can imagine how terrified I was that I had to beg and plead and go through a whole lot to try to get the medication.’ …..

‘If President Trump had not talked about this it wouldn't have been something that would be accessible for anyone to be able to get right now,’ she said, adding that within a few hours of taking her prescription, she was feeling much better.”

Original Commentary: April 3, 2020

A malarial drug, hydroxychloroquine, is being used to treat COVID-19 worldwide with phenomenal success. Yet in America, it has been banned by governors and its effectiveness denied by Dr. Anthony Fauci and Big Pharma.

Dr. Vladmir Zelenko, in an exclusive interview with former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, discussed his 100 percent success with a cocktail of drugs to treat COVID-19 patients in New York. The drugs were hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin (Z-Pak - an antibiotic to treat secondary infections), and zinc sulfate. Out of 699 patients treated, none have died or been intubated (put on a ventilator) and only four were hospitalized. The shortness of breath was resolved within four to six hours after treatment. The cost? $20 over a period of 5 days with 100% success.

Months ago the high esteemed Dr. Didier Raoult, who is one of the world’s top five scientists on communicable diseases, conducted a study using hydroxychloroquine because of its success with previous coronaviruses such as SARS. The success of Raoult’s study was ignored by French health officials. However, in October 2019 the French minister quietly moved the low cost over the counter drug to the list of “controlled substances” which requires a prescription and is considerably more in cost.

With President Trump’s fast tracking the clinical testing of hydroxychloroquine, patients have already benefited. Symptomatic patients have tested negative within an average of 5-6 days. There should have been great joy throughout the land over this, yet Democrats, the media, and those who hate Trump have weaponized the drug.

Deep State director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Dr. Anthony Fauci stated, “There are no proven safe and effective therapies for the coronavirus.” Ignoring the highly successful controlled study in France by Dr. Raoult, Fauci claimed, “We’re getting stories from people who have tried them, but they’ve tried them in trials that are not controlled.”

What’s even more telling about Fauci’s political agenda is his discouraging people from going to their doctors and requesting chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine – a less toxic form of chloroquine.

Democrat Nevada, Michigan, and New York governors banned the use of Hydroxychloroquine with Michigan governor threatening professional consequences against doctors who prescribe it. Meanwhile, the FDA has approved hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19.

Mainstream media, including the New York Times and Washington Post, continue to publish negative reports about the drug and downplay its effectiveness in treating the virus.

Fake news cannot stop the international excitement, however. Hydroxychloroquine is now being used worldwide as shown on a map from Dr. Raoult. A global survey of more than 6,000 doctors conducted reported that hydroxychloroquine is the most highly rated treatment against the deadly coronavirus.

In his interview with Fox News host Laura Ingraham, infectious disease specialist Dr. Stephen Smith, said his team has been treating everyone with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin with incredible results. “No person who has received five days or more of the [drug] combination has been intubated,” As for the future of hydroxychloroquine, Dr. Smith exclaimed, “It’s an absolute game-changer...I think this is the beginning of the end of the pandemic.”

Americans should be alarmed by the financial industry brief published on March 10 by Raymond James and Associates,

“If clinical data confirm the biological results, the novel coronavirus-associated disease will have become one of the simplest and cheapest to treat and prevent among infectious respiratory diseases.”

In a blunt statement about the lack of attention being given to the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine, the brief concluded,

“But chloroquine doesn’t directly benefit any stock, like GILD or REGN or ABBV, which is probably why it seems to be getting less attention.”

Corporations are driven to benefit their shareholders who will not benefit with a low-cost drug that cures the problem quickly.

Meanwhile under the watchful eye of Fauci, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases is experimenting with a vaccine for the virus. Annual vaccinations of a hysterical American population, who are being told by Fauci to expect a recurrence of the virus in the fall, are far more lucrative than a low cost, quick cure.

Certainly the U.N.’s World Health Organization, Big Pharma, Bill Gates, Dr. Fauci, and the world global medical complex that manipulate world health for power and profit will try to stop the use of a generic low cost drug for fast treatment of COVID-19. Their solutions are quarantine, vaccines, and new drugs. WHO has praised China and South Korea for their draconian quarantine measures yet ignore their use of chloroquine as an effective treatment for coronavirus.

These New World Order proponents are on a vendetta to force vaccinations on the entire world population. Immunization is claimed as being the only way to achieve the 17 sustainability, freedom suppressing goals of the U.N. A corornavirus pandemic is a crisis made to order.