Earlier this week I reported on the cover-up by the Chinese government of outbreak of the Coronavirus.
Now this. Bill Holter of JSMineset is reporting a friend of his states a Chinese friend and resident of Wuhan told him they have 10,000 dead. City falling apart. And while these reports are unconfirmed, we know the most reliable sources are from people on the ground. The least reliable are state or government sources.

Quick note: Tech giants are snuffing us out. You know this. Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Adsense permenently banned us. Facebook, Twitter, Google search et al have shadowbanned, suspended and deleted us from your news feeds. They are disappearing us. But we are here. Help us fight. Subscribe to Geller Report newsletter here — it’s free and it’s critical NOW more than ever. Share our posts on social and with your email contacts.
The Coronavirus in China is spreading, and largely could have been prevented. A town 7 km from where the virus was discovered in Wuhan had a state run banquet with 100,000 people eating off of the same dishes. This was 2 days after 49 cases were confirmed in Wuhan, China. The Chinese government is trying to save face, and now it is backfiring.

‘Everyone will get infected’ Nurse at corpse-strewn hospital says quarantine failing

Related: CORONAVIRUS: Photos of Infected People Dead in Streets in China, Death Toll Spikes

Coronavirus outbreak: Video shows dead bodies in halls of China hospital

The images from inside Red Cross Hospital in Wuhan, the city at the epicenter of the deadly viral outbreak, show covered bodies lining corridors as staffers and patients walk about with masks on their faces.

Posted January 24th, 2020 at 10:06 AM (CST) by Bill Holter:

Bill,

I just received a call from a close American friend of mine who just got off the phone with a Chinese friend, who has relatives in Wuhan. He says there may already be ~10,000 dead there from the virus. He was quite graphic about dreadful conditions in the city. He opined that the government was not coming clean on real facts. Imagine that?

It is far worse Bill than people imagine: My friend reiterated that Wuhan, more than other places in China, has a local population which consumes rats, bats, snakes, etc. , just like I told him.

His Wuhan relative recounted incidents of people walking down street and dropping dead. I see why the government has quarantined the place, which means nobody (especially the press) gets out or into the city.

This is really scary stuff. I imagine that China was, and is covering up what they thought was contained and now is not and I doubt they understand the scope of global fallout that they have unleashed.

Cheers,

Robert

Thanks Robert, truly sad on several levels.

Coronavirus outbreak: De Blasio says disease will reach  NYC ‘sooner than later’
4 people in New York State ‘under investigation’ for coronavirus, Cuomo says
China’s Coronavirus is Much Worse Than You Think
Disturbing images of Wuhan residents dropping unresponsive to the floor have emerged on Instagram following the diseased Chinese city’s coronavirus lockdown.