Ads by Revcontent 00:02 / 00:40 Replay Skip Ads by Read More The content you see here is paid for by the advertiser or content provider whose link you click on, and is recommended to you by Revcontent. As the leading platform for native advertising and content recommendation, Revcontent uses interest based targeting to select content that we think will be of particular interest to you. We encourage you to view your opt out options in Revcontent's Privacy Policy Want your content to appear on sites like this? Increase Your Engagement Now! Want to report this publisher's content as misinformation? Submit a Report Got it, thanks! Remove Content Link? Please choose a reason below: Fake News Misleading Not Interested Offensive Repetitive Submit Cancel

No one knows why the Democrats hate senior citizens so much. They do everything that they can to screw our nation’s retirees, trying to screw them out of Social Security, screw them out of Medicare, and now they want to screw them out of their stimulus checks.

Nancy Pelosi and her colleagues have been endlessly stalling the stimulus bill. They filled it was so much pork, that all that was left for the people was $1200 each. Had it not been for all of her additions, we would have been entitled to $10,000 each. If that wasn’t enough, Pelosi now wants to take more funds for her pet projects, and finance them by taking stimulants away from senior citizens.

The Speaker of the House presented this latest stalling technique to congress today:

“The stimulus is being delivered in order to keep our economy rolling. It needs to go to those who spend so that money continues to flow. Seniors don’t spend money. They sock it all away in a cookie jar or under a mattress, saving it for a rainy day that never comes. They’re idiots and, if anything, they are destructive to the economy of the United States. And besides, they get Social Security. They’re already living off the government dime, getting a handout each and every month because they’re too lazy to work for a living. Why would we give them more? Seniors will just have to do with they always do. They should be thankful that we’re still willing to treat them if they catch this thing. If it were completely up to me, I’d toss them away.”

Pelosi is the most uncaring witch this country’s government has ever seen. In our entire history, we have not witnessed such sadistic behavior from an elected official. She needs to go.