Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder who is currently worth approximately 102 billion dollars, is spending a fortune on eugenics and sterilization around the world. For Gates, “vaccines” seem to be his solution for the greatest problem – in his view – that exists…people. As you can see in the video below, Gates lauds vaccines as a way to limit the human population.

Notice that after claiming the Earth must see a zero CO2 impact from humanity by limiting “services” to zero, Gates claims that part of his depopulation goal is vaccines.

How would vaccines lead to depopulation, when they’re ostensibly designed to make people healthy? Well, Gates is spending a whopping sum on contraception, abortion, and sterilization in Third World countries, but there’s a little secret about his vaccines as well.

Bill Gates’ vaccines have made news reports in recent days for (supposedly inadvertently) containing sterilization meds. Who would have thought? Gates and his world-depopulation taskforce basically said “oopsie” and moved ahead. Facebook’s fact-checker, Africa Check, claims the stories are bogus but, quite frankly, Africa Check said our article about the LGBT demanding to be treated as a priority for coronavirus was bogus, and they only took issue with our use of scare quotes around the word “transgender.” So honestly, we don’t believe them. Facebook’s owner, Mark Zuckerberg, is partnering with Gates in his vaccine agenda, so their in-house “fact-checker” is hardly impartial.

And now, Gates is leading the fight (he’s a computer guy, right?) to find a coronavirus vaccine. And Gates now argues that “mass gatherings” (churches) will not meet again until a vaccine is found and everyone is vaccinated.

The press reports Gates said, “What does opening up look like? Which activities, like schools, can be done in a way that the risk of transmission is very low? And which activities, like mass gatherings, maybe — in a certain sense — more optional? Until you’re widely vaccinated, those may not come back at all.”

Gates has suggested a “digital tracking program” be put in place to designate people as immune to coronavirus or infected, a program of immense implications for personal liberty and privacy. Attorney General William Barr said he was “very concerned” about personal liberties by the suggestion.

