Romanian scientists have just developed a working vaccine which is able to cure the 2019-nCov virus (also known as novo coronavirus).

Turns out human races are different in more ways not just skin color as mentally incapacitated liberals would have you believe. Liberalism is the biggest disease the world has ever seen, its a disease so great that it kills people in many ways. One of the ways now is the inability to study this virus the right way.

Human races are different and they have different immune systems with different reactions.

So it took a bunch of Romanian scientists to study and come up with the right answer to this mess:

“We’ve put up a new scientific report on our institute’s website, which is hard to understand by the ones who are not in the medical field but in short, we began to study a new approach to vaccines since the last Ebola pandemic because we thought that vaccines through their traditional methods used until now will soon be unable to work on new viruses as they have reached their limits. I cannot tell you if a mass population vaccine for all peoples will work or not but if it would, it would have been released by now.

This is about an individual populations vaccine. We studied Romania’s immune system’s characteristics which are of Caucasian descent and which is generally found throughout Europe and North America. Now taking into account those immune characteristics and the diverse responses to various antigens such as Coronavirus, we proposed a mix of antigens, peptides and proteins and we were able to find a cure which would be able to cover Romania’s entire population explained Dr. Virgil Paunescu head of Institute of Research OncoGen Timisoara.

If we had the necessary equipment we would be able to produce the vaccine faster. We will order those peptides from Germany in the form of powder and we should receive it in a month. We will then conduct tests and hope we will get the results we are hoping for. From this point we cannot produce a large scale of this vaccine, we just came up with a solution, the current approach is a compromise between an industrial large-scale global vaccination strategy and an individually-targeted personalized vaccination strategy which is generally more expensive to produce, said Dr. Virgil Paunescu.”

According to the research published on their institute’s website, the research is “Based on this model, additional peptide candidates can be identified for the Caucasian population from different geographic regions and for other communities.”

Well boyz and galz, as we already knew, it turns out that there is more to it than just skin color, a lot more!!!! There’s plenty of diseases which are racially based but because a liberal curtain has been pulled over our eyes not even science is able to function properly!

We have as a part of medicine the fact that certain races experience certain health issues:

Cystic fibrosis, the most common life-limiting autosomal recessive disease among people of Northern European heritage
Sickle-cell anemia, most prevalent in populations with sub-Saharan African ancestry but also common among Latin American, Middle Eastern populations, as well as those people of South European regions such as Turkey, Greece, and Italy
Thalassemia, most prevalent in populations having Mediterranean ancestry, to the point that the disease’s name is derived from Greek thalasson, “sea”
Tay–Sachs disease, an autosomal recessive disorder most common among Ashkenazi Jews, French Canadians of Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean, Cajuns of Louisiana and Old Order Amish of Pennsylvania
Hereditary hemochromatosis, most common among persons having Northern European ancestry, in particular those people of Celtic descent
Hermansky–Pudlak syndrome, most common among Puerto Ricans
Finnish heritage diseases, autosomal recessive diseases that are far more common among Finns
Many disorders that are much more common in Ashkenazi Jews

Is it really politically incorrect to about this things? Unfortunately it is, but it shouldn’t, science is science and the fact that its considered politically incorrect nowadays to even approach diseases the right way just goes to show how mad the world we live in has become.

Never forget dumb retarded liberals, its only skin color, there is NO OTHER DIFFERENCE between human races but don’t you dare say there’s no difference between dog races or breeds, which its the same thing. Race/breed are synonymous words. Liberals are so brain dead they even use scientifically incapacitated terms such as “human race”. There is no “human race” you dumb animals.

Its called the human species and within this species there’s plenty of races/breeds such as the caucasoid race, the negroid, mongoloid, australoid, semitic and others, each with their own different set of haplogroup genes. Those genes do not dictate only the colors of our skins, its not like your skin is a freaking coat of various colors. It dictates different biological traits such as strength, stamina, metabolism, height, intelligence, immune systems and plenty of other things.

Almost all species of the earth have sub-breeds/races. Even bears do, you can’t f-king say ohhh all bears are the same, its only the color of their fur that differs. Are you like mentally ill? Yes… liberals are.

Did you know for example that its extremely difficult for mongoloids (Asians) to get fat because their metabolism is much faster than ours? It burns calories at a significantly faster rate than us.

In order for a Han Chinese person to get fat he/she has to eat like almost non-stop… Europeans can go for days without eating but Chinese can’t skip meals or they will start to shake and get dizzy.

Asians also don’t even need to use deodorants as they barely sweat because Allele G and Allele A frequencies are very different among human races. Africans have the highest percentage of body odor for example. Europeans have medium to high, East Asians, especially Chinese and Koreans have little to ZERO body odor, their genes also do NOT produce any yellow ear wax. Chinese are lactose intolerant, almost all of them. They cannot consume any diary products.

Let’s take it deeper into the rabbit hole. If you mixed with someone of a different race (let’s say Asian) and you have a child and that child is in need of a heart, kidney or any other organ, did you know that the child is going to be doomed? Donor organs from both whites (you) and Asians are going to be incompatible. The child is going to be doomed.

So STFU with your liberal mental illness “ohhhhhhh we’re all the same, who cares about color of the skin”!? Who cares? Science does! Who are you to say such words? Are you a scientist? No, you’re just a dumb insignificant ant in the colony.

Liberals are like the psycho fanatical Christians of the Dark Ages who burned anyone at the stake for the slightest reason, accused of being a heretic. Talking about race even scientifically is the heresy of the 21st century. This will be our doom, not just to whites but to everyone.

February 7 update: OUR RESPONSE TO “FAKE NEWS” ACCUSATIONS! Several scumbags say this article is “fake news”

First of all, “good thing” Trump invented that “fake news” terms so now everybody uses it. Its like a new form of madness, adopted not just by the right-wing but by the psycho liberals themselves too… if you say the sky is blue and the grass is green, I bet there’s always gonna be some moron out there who comes and screams “FAKE NEWS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!” This goes back all the way in 2016 when Trump used to accuse CNN, NBC and other liberal mainstream media of being fake news whenever they criticized him. Now “fake news” seems to be used by everyone, everywhere.

Now second, what exactly is fake about this story? According to Romanian TV station Antena 3 which we linked to above and we are gladly linking it again here and to the Romanian scientist himself:

“Noi am pus pe site-ul institutului un soi de articol ştiinţific, mai greu de înțeles pentru cei care nu sunt în domeniu, dar vom face şi rezumate. Noi am început să studiem un alt mod de abordare a vaccinurilor, de la ultima epidemie de Ebola, când ne-am gândit că vaccinul, prin metodele tradiţionale de obţinere de până acum, nu va fi posibil pentru că vaccinologia, cu vechile ei metode, şi-a cam atins limitele. Nu vă pot spune, acum, dacă un vaccin de masă va merge sau nu. Dacă mergea, ar fi apărut deja.

Este vorba despre un vaccin individualizat populaţional. Adică noi am luat caracteristicile imune ale populaţiei din România, de tip caucazian, care se regăseşte în toată Europa şi America de Nord, în linii mari. Ţinând cont de caracteristicile imune, ale răspunsului imun la diverşi stimuli antigenici, în cazul de faţă la coronavirus, şi folosind datele publicate (structura genomică a coronavirusului), am propus o serie de peptide, de atingene, de mici proteine, un amestec care să acopere, în practică, toată populaţia României”, a explicat Prof. dr. Virgil Păunescu, şeful Institutului de Cercetare OncoGen din Timişoara.

“Noi, dacă am fi avut aparatura necesară, l-am fi făcut mai repede. Vom comanda aceste peptide în Germania, sub formă de pulbere, şi le vom aduce în România, în aproape o lună de zile. Apoi, vom verifica dacă dau reacţiile pe care le bănuim. Mai departe, noi nu putem produce la scară mare acest vaccin. Noi venim cu o soluţie, care este un compromis între vaccinarea industrială, cea practicată în gripa obişnuită, şi cea individualizată, care nu se poate aplica pentru că este scumpă”, a mai spus Prof. dr. Virgil Păunescu.

And this roughly translates as:

“We’ve put up a new scientific report on our institute’s website, which is hard to understand by the ones who are not in the medical field but in short, we began to study a new approach to vaccines since the last Ebola pandemic because we thought that vaccines through their traditional methods used until now will soon be unable to work on new viruses as they have reached their limits. I cannot tell you if a mass population vaccine for all peoples will work or not but if it would, it would have been released by now.

This is about an individual populations vaccine. We studied Romania’s immune system’s characteristics which are of Caucasian descent and which is generally found throughout Europe and North America. Now taking into account those immune characteristics and the diverse responses to various antigens such as Coronavirus, we proposed a mix of antigens, peptides and proteins and we were able to find a cure which would be able to cover Romania’s entire population explained Dr. Virgil Paunescu head of Institute of Research OncoGen Timisoara.

If we had the necessary equipment we would be able to produce the vaccine faster. We will order those peptides from Germany in the form of powder and we should receive it in a month. We will then conduct tests and hope we will get the results we are hoping for. From this point we cannot produce a large scale of this vaccine, we just came up with a solution, the current approach is a compromise between an industrial large-scale global vaccination strategy and an individually-targeted personalized vaccination strategy which is generally more expensive to produce, said Dr. Virgil Paunescu.”

YOU CAN LITERALLY VERIFY the translation on Google translate. Copy and paste the above Romanian text into Google Translate and translate it into whatever language you want.

Now what exactly is “fake” about this? Seriously people, all of you who scream “fake news” are exactly what we described above: “Liberalism is the biggest disease the world has ever seen.” Yup, we stand by that, you people prove time and time again that your minds are diseased, you are diseased just by screaming “fake news” in this case.

Just in case you still have any single doubts in your mind about how mentally ill liberal people are, here let us provide you with a proper PROOF of that, a proper evidence, not just accusations and slandering but solid evidence. Wired.com a liberal news outlet just published this story “We Should Deescalate the War on the Coronavirus“. In the article they are saying that “We may be better off adjusting to a new normal of periodic outbreaks.” Yeap, their solution is for us to just accept Coronaviurs, accept that you are going to die, its “NORMAL”!!! You see?? You need more proof? Liberalism is a disease more harmful than Coronavirus itself as liberalism teaches you to go hug a Chinese person in these dangerous times to show how tolerant non-racist you are. Yeah sure, go out and hug a random Chinese person on the streets but perhaps this is part of natural selection and its for the better, perhaps after Coronavirus is done, tons of liberals will finally just die and we will get rid of them and it will be our turn to rule.

We didn’t say in the article that Dr. Virgil can’t ever produce a vaccine for Asians or other races, or that there is no cure for them, all we said is that for now, according to HIM, not to us, he was only able to invent a vaccine for people of “Caucasian descent from Europe and North America” which yes, Caucasians are also known as white people.

And we just wanted to point out the obvious that since different races require different scientific approaches and different vaccines, then there must be more to us humans and our differences than just skin color which liberals usually bring up to dismiss any talk about human races, but it doesn’t matter you see? It doesn’t matter what we say here in this update, all is null and void in the diseased liberal mind. Whatever we say, whatever scientists say, diseased liberals will ALWAYS find something to cling to. For God’s sake they even crucified the world’s biggest geneticist, James Watson for stating that blacks are less intelligent than whites. Everything that is against the liberal orthodoxy is an enemy to them, read this.

This Romanian scientist is also not the only one saying this. Even Chinese scientists Yu Zhao, Zixian Zhao, Yujia Wang, Yueqing Zhou, Yu Ma, Wei Zuo said in this report that Asians are far more likely to get infected by Coronavirus because they are lacking ACE2 inhibitor against the virus while white people are basically almost immune to this virus.

Now if you wanna contradict someone, contradict the scientists, not us (only if you are a scientist yourself and not some random loud mouth retard) this is what THEY are saying and we are only reporting on it. Now if you don’t like it because we’re reporting on it and not your favorite “true news” CNN or whoever you read didn’t report on it, that’s your problem.

Now perhaps the title is to blame as yeah it can be misinterpreted, especially this part “able to Cure White People only”, perhaps we should have said “able to cure white people only for now” but this is why you don’t read just a f-king title then draw conclusions and its your duty to read the entire story and click on the links inside that story, but even that part of the title is not fake news.

Its the truth, the vaccine that the scientist invented only addresses “Caucasians” but this doesn’t mean that he cannot ever invent one for Asians too. Did we say such a thing in the above story? Remember, the above story remains as it was originally, only this part is an addition/response to the original story published on January 30th.

The only thing fake here, are the people who say this is fake. Make sure you do your own research before you follow others like a dumb sheep and also start screaming “fake news”!