This article may be reprinted free of charge provided 1) that there is clear attribution to the Orthomolecular Medicine News Service, and 2) that both the OMNS free subscription link http://orthomolecular.org/subscribe.html and also the OMNS archive link http://orthomolecular.org/resources/omns/index.shtml are included.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Orthomolecular Medicine News Service, Mar 3, 2020

Shanghai Government Officially Recommends Vitamin C for COVID-19

by Andrew W. Saul

(OMNS Mar 3, 2020) The government of Shanghai, China has announced its official recommendation that COVID-19 should be treated with high amounts of intravenous vitamin C. (1) Dosage recommendations vary with severity of illness, from 50 to 200 milligrams per kilogram body weight per day to as much as 200 mg/kg/day.

These dosages are approximately 4,000 to 16,000 mg for an adult, administered by IV. This specific method of administration is important, says intravenous therapy expert Atsuo Yanagisawa, MD, PhD, because vitamin C's effect is at least ten times more powerful by IV than if taken orally. Dr. Yanagisawa is president of the Tokyo-based Japanese College of Intravenous Therapy. He says, "Intravenous vitamin C is a safe, effective, and broad-spectrum antiviral."

Richard Z. Cheng, MD, PhD, a Chinese-American specialist physician, has been working closely with medical and governmental authorities throughout China. He has been instrumental in facilitating at least three Chinese clinical IV vitamin C studies now underway. Dr. Cheng is presently in Shanghai continuing his efforts to encourage still more Chinese hospitals to implement vitamin C therapy incorporating high oral doses as well as C by IV.

Dr. Cheng and Dr. Yanagisawa both recommend oral vitamin C for prevention of COVID-19 infection.

An official statement from Xi'an Jiaotong University Second Hospital (2) reads:

"On the afternoon of February 20, 2020, another 4 patients with severe new coronaviral pneumonia recovered from the C10 West Ward of Tongji Hospital. In the past 8 patients have been discharged from hospital. . . [H]igh-dose vitamin C achieved good results in clinical applications. We believe that for patients with severe neonatal pneumonia and critically ill patients, vitamin C treatment should be initiated as soon as possible after admission. . .[E]arly application of large doses of vitamin C can have a strong antioxidant effect, reduce inflammatory responses, and improve endothelial function. . . Numerous studies have shown that the dose of vitamin C has a lot to do with the effect of treatment. . . [H]gh-dose vitamin C can not only improve antiviral levels, but more importantly, can prevent and treat acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress (ARDS)."

For more information, below is a list of previous reporting by OMNS on COVID-19 and vitamin C:

References

1. https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/bF2YhJKiOfe1yimBc4XwOA

2. http://2yuan.xjtu.edu.cn/Html/News/Articles/21774.html

Nutritional Medicine is Orthomolecular Medicine

Orthomolecular medicine uses safe, effective nutritional therapy to fight illness. For more information: http://www.orthomolecular.org

Find a Doctor

To locate an orthomolecular physician near you: http://orthomolecular.org/resources/omns/v06n09.shtml

The peer-reviewed Orthomolecular Medicine News Service is a non-profit and non-commercial informational resource.

Editorial Review Board:

Ilyès Baghli, M.D. (Algeria)

Ian Brighthope, MBBS, FACNEM (Australia)

Prof. Gilbert Henri Crussol (Spain)

Carolyn Dean, M.D., N.D. (USA)

Damien Downing, M.D. (United Kingdom)

Michael Ellis, M.D. (Australia)

Martin P. Gallagher, M.D., D.C. (USA)

Michael J. Gonzalez, N.M.D., D.Sc., Ph.D. (Puerto Rico)

William B. Grant, Ph.D. (USA)

Tonya S. Heyman, M.D. (USA)

Suzanne Humphries, M.D. (USA)

Ron Hunninghake, M.D. (USA)

Robert E. Jenkins, D.C. (USA)

Bo H. Jonsson, M.D., Ph.D. (Sweden)

Jeffrey J. Kotulski, D.O. (USA)

Peter H. Lauda, M.D. (Austria)

Thomas Levy, M.D., J.D. (USA)

Homer Lim, M.D. (Philippines)

Stuart Lindsey, Pharm.D. (USA)

Victor A. Marcial-Vega, M.D. (Puerto Rico)

Charles C. Mary, Jr., M.D. (USA)

Mignonne Mary, M.D. (USA)

Jun Matsuyama, M.D., Ph.D. (Japan)

Dave McCarthy, M.D. (USA)

Joseph Mercola, D.O. (USA)

Jorge R. Miranda-Massari, Pharm.D. (Puerto Rico)

Karin Munsterhjelm-Ahumada, M.D. (Finland)

Tahar Naili, M.D. (Algeria)

W. Todd Penberthy, Ph.D. (USA)

Dag Viljen Poleszynski, Ph.D. (Norway)

Selvam Rengasamy, MBBS, FRCOG (Malaysia)

Jeffrey A. Ruterbusch, D.O. (USA)

Gert E. Schuitemaker, Ph.D. (Netherlands)

Hyoungjoo Shin, M.D. (South Korea)

Thomas L. Taxman, M.D. (USA)

Jagan Nathan Vamanan, M.D. (India)

Garry Vickar, MD (USA)

Ken Walker, M.D. (Canada)

Anne Zauderer, D.C. (USA)

Andrew W. Saul, Ph.D. (USA), Editor-In-Chief

Editor, Japanese Edition: Atsuo Yanagisawa, M.D., Ph.D. (Japan)

Editor, Chinese Edition: Richard Cheng, M.D., Ph.D. (USA)

Robert G. Smith, Ph.D. (USA), Associate Editor

Helen Saul Case, M.S. (USA), Assistant Editor

Michael S. Stewart, B.Sc.C.S. (USA), Technology Editor

Jason M. Saul, JD (USA), Legal Consultant

Comments and media contact: drsaul@doctoryourself.com OMNS welcomes but is unable to respond to individual reader emails. Reader comments become the property of OMNS and may or may not be used for publication.

To Subscribe at no charge: http://www.orthomolecular.org/subscribe.html

To Unsubscribe from this list: http://www.orthomolecular.org/unsubscribe.html